fora tv' the world is thinking
well the question to be asked is why
bother I mean isn't this obvious why do
you have to go through the process of
economic evaluation of nature well let
me try and address that to you and then
also try and explain how it is to be
done because nature is something
wondrous it is our only home it's worth
infinity we just establish that why do
you need to put value to the ecosystem
services that you get from it and how do
you do this so in simple terms
yes it's wondrous and it's if you like
envision there's a three dimensional
colorful ball my colleagues called is
the disco sphere and figure out why this
is that but the problem is this that
you're trying to measure something that
is multi-dimensional in an axis which is
a single dimensional axis is essentially
the dollar axis if you like the economic
value and if you don't then there will
be other things there will be other uses
of land which are measured in economic
value terms and it will result in trade
off choices which means that nature
would be destroyed while nature would be
replaced by built areas by by
agriculture by just human interest into
into areas which are natural the thing
is in order to balance that that
equation and all just sort of balance
that trade off that is happening you
have one end of the scale which has
something that's measurable tangible
like a factory or a piece of
agricultural land converting land into
crop value and on the other you have
this mystical stuff which you don't put
a value to to balance that you need to
measure nature's services into society
and then when you do that and actually
present two sides of the coin your
choice can be quite different I want to
give a small example of this small
because it is a locational very specific
example this comes from South Island
this is about a shrimp farm which arose
from a mangrove and in fact this applies
to a particular area in South Island so
economically the logic was very clear
shrimp farms worth nine thousand six
hundred dollars per hectare and if you
leave the forest as it is the mangrove
forest then that's only providing you
something like six hundred dollars per
hectare based on the fuel load that is
extracted from there by the local
community economic choice very obvious
convert the mangrove co shrimp
if you also look at the subsidies that
the local government if Ireland
government provides to the shrimp farm
well that's eight thousand dollars so if
you subtract that we are talking about
not as such a huge comparison a thousand
two hundred versus six hundred dollars
but hang on that's not the end of the
story because having the mangrove there
means that you actually have a massive
store of protection from storms and
cyclones as they get more frequent
especially with climate change and not
only that but as a result of the shrimp
farm typically in in three to five years
you end up having to just reconstruct
the whole area because salination and
the deposition of chemicals has
basically destroyed that land so you
need to redo the whole area that cost
money costs about ten thousand dollars
and the value you can work it out of the
mangrove protecting the area that you've
that you've got along the coastline in
terms of local communities their housing
and their livelihoods that can be
measured in terms of areas which had
mangroves and those which didn't how
much cyclonic damage they suffered
versus the others and that works out to
something like twelve thousand dollars
now look at the trade-off choice and
this is the whole point that if you look
at public wealth and include that in
your trade-off decisions you get to a
completely different answer then if you
simply looked at private profits and
worked your your trade off choice on
that basis you in fact you get the
opposite answer you get conversion as
the right economic choice and not sorry
you get conservation as the right
economic choice and not kind of
conversion so is this just an isolated
example from some small community area
and the southern coast of Thailand no a
calculation a much bigger calculation
like this has been done by a group in
the UK research group called true cost
and their numbers were quite staggering
they worked out that the so-called
externalities in other words the cost to
society of normal business by
corporations with normal people like you
and me us buying things like cars petrol
and them selling it and us driving it
around and creating a carbon externality
or us buying fresh water for too cheap
compared to where it comes from and
creating if you like a negative
freshwater externality all of these
added up and pollution and so on all of
these added up according to them are
something like 2.25 trillion dollars
that's
a huge number fine but it's also
interestingly enough a third almost a
third of the profits of those three
thousand corporations and you can
imagine that this is three thousand
corporations so there will be some
corporations where their externalities
which means their cost to society of
doing normal business are actually
higher than the profits that they
generate now is that a good business
model have a corporation license it set
it to work and guess what at the end of
a few years it's destroyed a lot more
value than its created hmm can you keep
doing that No and that's really the
challenge and that's the challenge that
corporations have to address and we as
society have to address with them